Blog article on 'istioctl x describe' (#4939)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2019/istioctl-describe/index.md

---
title: "'istioctl describe' in Istio 1.3"

> description: Introducing a command-line utility to find configuration affecting pod traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Introducing a CLI to discover the configuration affecting pod traffic.
```

> publishdate: 2019-09-20

Reviewer: @esnible: Why is this a release blocker if it won't be published until September 20? Please confirm that this is a blocker for Istio 1.3

Author: It is not a blocker.  We can publish it when it is ready.

attribution: Ed Snible (IBM)
keywords: [traffic-management, istioctl, debugging]
---

> Istio 1.3 includes an experimental command-line tool designed to help find and

Reviewer: Please be specific. This is not a new command line tool. This is a new subcommand for `istioctl` correct? If that's the case then please refer to it as such everywhere on the page. For example:
```suggestion
In Istio 1.3, we included the experimental `describe pod` subcommand for `istioctl`. We designed this tool to help find and
```

> understand configuration that affects traffic to a pod.

Reviewer: There is nothing wrong with your use but `affect` and `effect` can be very confusing for non-English native readers. Consider:
```suggestion
understand the configuration that impacts the traffic to a pod.
```

> `istioctl experimental describe pod <pod>` shows the Istio configuration that affects a pod.

Reviewer: This sentence is redundant. You already provided this information above.
```suggestion
```

The team has prepared a mini-tutorial to demonstrate the features and use of the tool.

> ## describe tutorial using Bookinfo tutorial

Reviewer: This content should not be part of the blog post. Please create a task for this feature. See our [guide on page types](https://istio.io/about/contribute/creating-and-editing-pages/#choosing-a-page-type) for more details. 
@esnible I'll be happy to help you or any other member of the WG polish this content for publication.

First, let us [deploy Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/).

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml
$ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
$ export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http2")].port}')
$ export GATEWAY_URL=$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT
$ echo Bookinfo at $GATEWAY_URL/productpage
{{< /text >}}

Let's describe a pod:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export RATINGS_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
$ istioctl experimental describe pod $RATINGS_POD
{{< /text >}}

The output tells us which containers the pod exposes, the Istio protocol for the microservice on port 9080, and the mutual TLS settings for the pod.

{{< text plain >}}
Pod: ratings-v1-f745cf57b-qrxl2
   Pod Ports: 9080 (ratings), 15090 (istio-proxy)
--------------------
Service: ratings
   Port: http 9080/HTTP
Pilot reports that pod enforces HTTP/mTLS and clients speak HTTP
{{< /text >}}

> ## `DestinationRules`

Reviewer: Do not use the value of the `kind:` field unless you are referencing the value directly. See our style guide on [consistent capitalization](https://istio.io/about/contribute/style-guide/#use-consistent-capitalization)
